

Hi everyone, I'am Zheng Hanchao. Today, I want to talk about something really cool called 'Vector Search.' It sounds a bit technical, but it's actually all about how our computers are getting much smarter at understanding what _we_ mean

You might be surprised, but we already experience the results of this kind of smart search every single day!
- For example, when you are shopping online,  you might search the clothes similar to the one you are wearing or the one in the picture.
- Or, when you are browsering the short videos, the apps will recommend the many similar videos that you may like.
- Even when you use Google to search some information, Google's trying to understand the meaning behind your question, not just matching the excat words you typed.

So, what is the vector? when you hear it, you might think of learning linear algebra in the college. In linear algebra, the vector is a sequence of numbers, and also a point in the space. for example, the vector (1,2,3) is a point in this 3D space, the number 1,2,3 represent the value in x,y,z axis.

Let's think of this shirt, and change the x,y,z axis to color, shape and style features. If we want to tell this shirt to the computer, we need to describe it using the numbers which the computer understand, for example assign a number 1 to describe the shape. and in fact, to describe the object preciously, we need many features to capture all the details of the object. 
so a vector is a bunch of numbers, that acts like a special code, and we could call it a 'meaning fringerprint' which could represent the item as a single point in a gaint meaning space.

so what is the vector search then? Imagine there are many objects, and computer will turn each one into its own special list of numbers, its own vector. After that, we will get a bunch of meaning fingerprints in this gaint meaning space, the different objects are in different position in the space.
so the goal of the search is to find the items whose fingerprint is most similar to your search fingerprint. let's take an example. now you want to search the similar pants, first the computer will also turn it into the vector, and it will sit in a certain position in the space. then the computer will search the closest point in the space to it.